docs/backends.md, before:

# Backends

gopass supports pluggable backends for Storage (`store`), Encryption (`crypto`) and Source-Control-Management (`sync`).

As of today, the names and responsibilities of these backends are still unstable and will probably change.

By providing suitable backends, gopass can use different kinds of encryption (see XC below) or storage.
For example, it is pretty straightforward to add mercurial or bazaar as an SCM backend or
implement a Vault storage.

All backends are in their own packages below `backend/`. They need to implement the
interfaces defined in the backend package and have their identification added to
the context handlers in the same package.

## Storage Backends (storage)

### Filesystem (fs)

This is the only stable storage backend. It stores the encrypted (see "Crypto Backends") data directly in the filesystem.

### In Memory (inmem)

This is a volatile in-memory backend for tests.

**WARNING**: All data is lost when gopass stops!

## RCS Backends (rcs)

These are revision control backends talking to various source control
management systems.

### CLI-based git (gitcli)

The CLI-based git backend requires a properly configured git binary. It has the
most features of all SCM backends and is pretty stable. One major drawback is that
it sometimes fails if commit signing is enabled and the interaction with GPG
fails.

### Noop (noop)

This is a no-op backend for testing SCM-less support.

## Crypto Backends (crypto)

### CLI-based GPG (gpgcli)

This backend is based on calling the `gpg` binary. This is the recommended backend
since we believe that it's the most secure one and it is compatible with
other implementations of the `password-store` vault layout. However GPG is notoriously
difficult to use, there are lots of different versions being used, and the
output is not very machine readable. We will continue to support this backend
in the future, but we'd like to to move to a different default backend if possible.

### Plaintext (plain)

This is a no-op backend used for testing.

**WARNING**: Do not use unless you know what you are doing.

### NaCl-based custom crypto backend (xc)

**WARNING**: The future of this backend is unclear. If [age](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age) proves feasible this backend will be dropped. Do not use in production!

We implemented a pure-Go backend using a custom message format based on the excellent
[NaCl library](https://nacl.cr.yp.to/) [packages](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/crypto/nacl).
The advantage of this backend is that it's properly integrated into gopass, has a stable API,
stable error handling and only the features we absolutely need. This makes it
very easy to setup, use and support. The big drawback is that it didn't receive
any of the scrutiny and peer review that GPG got. And since it's very easy to
make dangerous mistakes when dealing with cryptography - even when it's only
using existing building blocks - we're a little wary to recommend it for broader use.

Also it requires its own Keyring/Agent infrastructure, as the keyformat is quite
different from what GPG is using.

Please see the backend [Readme](https://github.com/gopasspw/gopass/blob/master/pkg/backend/crypto/xc/README.md) for more details. Proper documentation for this
backend still needs to written and will be added at a later point.

Commit message:

Add experimental ondisk storage and rcs backend (#1366)
RELEASE_NOTES=n/a

Signed-off-by: Dominik Schulz <dominik.schulz@gauner.org>

docs/backends.md, after:

# Backends

gopass supports pluggable backends for Storage (`store`), Encryption (`crypto`) and Source-Control-Management (`sync`).

As of today, the names and responsibilities of these backends are still unstable and will probably change.

By providing suitable backends, gopass can use different kinds of encryption (see XC below) or storage.
For example, it is pretty straightforward to add mercurial or bazaar as an SCM backend or
implement a Vault storage.

All backends are in their own packages below `backend/`. They need to implement the
interfaces defined in the backend package and have their identification added to
the context handlers in the same package.

## Storage Backends (storage)

### Filesystem (fs)

This is the only stable storage backend. It stores the encrypted (see "Crypto Backends") data directly in the filesystem.

### In Memory (inmem)

This is a volatile in-memory backend for tests.

**WARNING**: All data is lost when gopass stops!

### On Disk (ondisk)

This is an experimental on disk K/V backend. It stores the encrypted data in the
filesystem in a content adressable manner. Currently the metadata is NOT encrypted
but that is planned to be added soon.

This might become the default storage and RCS backend in gopass 2.x.

**WARNING**: The metadata is currently not encrypted and the disk format is
still experimental. **DO NOT USE** unless you want to help with the implementation.

## RCS Backends (rcs)

These are revision control backends talking to various source control
management systems.

### CLI-based git (gitcli)

The CLI-based git backend requires a properly configured git binary. It has the
most features of all SCM backends and is pretty stable. One major drawback is that
it sometimes fails if commit signing is enabled and the interaction with GPG
fails.

### Noop (noop)

This is a no-op backend for testing SCM-less support.

## Crypto Backends (crypto)

### CLI-based GPG (gpgcli)

This backend is based on calling the `gpg` binary. This is the recommended backend
since we believe that it's the most secure one and it is compatible with
other implementations of the `password-store` vault layout. However GPG is notoriously
difficult to use, there are lots of different versions being used, and the
output is not very machine readable. We will continue to support this backend
in the future, but we'd like to to move to a different default backend if possible.

### Plaintext (plain)

This is a no-op backend used for testing.

**WARNING**: Do not use unless you know what you are doing.

### NaCl-based custom crypto backend (xc)

**WARNING**: The future of this backend is unclear. If [age](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age) proves feasible this backend will be dropped. Do not use in production!

We implemented a pure-Go backend using a custom message format based on the excellent
[NaCl library](https://nacl.cr.yp.to/) [packages](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/crypto/nacl).
The advantage of this backend is that it's properly integrated into gopass, has a stable API,
stable error handling and only the features we absolutely need. This makes it
very easy to setup, use and support. The big drawback is that it didn't receive
any of the scrutiny and peer review that GPG got. And since it's very easy to
make dangerous mistakes when dealing with cryptography - even when it's only
using existing building blocks - we're a little wary to recommend it for broader use.

Also it requires its own Keyring/Agent infrastructure, as the keyformat is quite
different from what GPG is using.

Please see the backend [Readme](https://github.com/gopasspw/gopass/blob/master/pkg/backend/crypto/xc/README.md) for more details. Proper documentation for this
backend still needs to written and will be added at a later point.
